README.md, before:

# The Wine Bar

[View deployed site here](https://omurilolima.github.io/the-wine-bar/)

## Introduction

A comprehensive website for a wine specialized restaurant based in Dublin, Ireland. The website features an about section, time opening, location, a menu page (with dining, wines and desserts area), contact page with a form which allows the client to contact the restaurant for giving feedback, book a table and opt-in to receive news, information and special offers by e-mail. Social media icons are featured in the footer.

Every restaurant needs to present itself with high quality photos of its menu, besides its atmosphere and vibe. These are the main thing to catch the clients atetion and awake their desire to visit the place. This website eases the customer process to find all the info they need to decide on visiting the restaurant and having a great wine experience.

![website in different screen sizes](/documentation/website-in-different-screen-sizes.png)

### Business goals addressed with this site:

- Build brand awareness;
- Present the business value proposition with high-quality content about the menu and atmosphere;
- Catch customers' attention and awaken their desire to visit the place;

### Customer needs:

- Understand the proporse of The Wine Bar;
- View the exact location of the restaurant;
- View the oppening hours;
- View the menu and prices;
- Book a table;
- Intuitive contact process.

## UX

### Ideal client:

- English speaking;
- Has interest about wine culture;
- Enjoy cosy and fancy restaurants;

### Visitors to this website are searching for:

- A good restaurant in Dublin to have a great meal with good wines.

### This project is the best way to help them achieve these things because:

- Feature the place and menu with high-quality images to delight potential customers.
- Delivery of all the main info through a clear and easy-to-navigate experience.

### New Customer stories:
1. As a new visitor to the website, I want to view the main info about the restaurant.
2. As a new visitor to the website, I want to view the opening hours of the restaurant.
3. As a new visitor to the website, I want to view the location/address of the restaurant.
4. As a new visitor to the website, I want to view the menu of the restaurant.
5. As a new visitor to the website, I want to contact the restaurant.

### Returning Customer stories:

6. As a returning customer to the website, I want to give feedback to the restaurant.
7. As a returning customer to the website, I want to sign up for the mailing list and qualify for special offers.
8. As a returning customer to the website, I want to view the restaurant's social media.

### Wireframes
- <strong>Home</strong>

![Wireframe Home](/documentation/wireframe-home.png)

- <strong>Our menu</strong>

![Wireframe Our menu](/documentation/wireframe-menu.png)

- <strong>Contact</strong>

![Contact](/documentation/wireframe-contact.png)

### Colour Scheme
I used [mycolor.space](https://mycolor.space/) to choose a colour scheme that would be easily readable and visually appealing to users.

![Colour Scheme](/documentation/Colour%20Scheme.png)

### Typography
I used Google Fonts to select and import the fonts Roboto Black 900 for main headers and the logo and Roboto Regular 400 for body text.

![Roboto Google Fonts](/documentation/roboto-google-fonts.png)

## Features

Each page features a responsive navigation bar on top, with the conventional placing of <strong>logo</strong> and the links to other pages.

Each page has a <strong>footer</strong> with social media icons and the author section.

Every page - except the contact page - features its own <strong>hero image</strong> at the top. The home page hero image section has a <strong>call to action</strong> inviting the user to the menu page.


### F01 Navigation Bar

It includes a simple Logo, Home page, Menu and Contact links and is responsive on multiple screen sizes.

- <strong>Big screen</strong>

![Navigation bar on big screen](/documentation/navigation-bar-big-screen.png)

- <strong>Small screen</strong>

![Navigation bar on small screen](/documentation/navigation-bar-small-screen.png)

### F02 Hero image and call to action

The hero image features a photograph and a cover text that identify the business value proposition "Best wines for amazing moments". A highlighted button is placed as an eye-catching call to action inviting the user to view the menu page.

![Hero image and call to action](/documentation/hero-image-and-cta.png)

### F03 About

This section brings the story about the restaurant and its purpose. Above are the opening hours and address of the place.

![About section](/documentation/about-section.png)

### F04 Footer

This section aims to feature social media where the restaurant has profiles, and the user can click on the icon to visit each one.

![Footer](/documentation/footer.png)

### F05 Our menu

With high-quality images, this section features the menu (dining, wines and desserts) for the user views every item with its photo, name, description and price.

<strong>Wine menu large screen</strong>

![wine menu large screen](/documentation/wine-menu-large-screen.png)

<strong>Wine menu small screen</strong>

![Wine menu small screen](/documentation/wine-menu-small-screen.png)

<strong>Dining menu large screen</strong>

![Dining menu large screen](/documentation/dining-menu-large-screen.png)


### F06 Contact

In the "Contact us" area, the user find a contact form in which they can send a message to restauran, give a feedback and signup for mailing list and qualify for special offers.

The "How to find us" area features a <strong>Google Map</strong> embended to easy the process of view the exact location of the restaurant. Besides, there is a phone number and an e-mail.

![Contact and Map section](/documentation/contact-and-map.png)

## Features to Implement in future
- Add Google Analytics to measure the user's behaviour on the website.
- "Book a table" page to permit customer to book a table online.
- Add CAPTCHA to contact form - Allows business to protect the contact form from spam.
- GDPR compliant pop-up screen - Allows all new visitors to the website to approve or deny the processing of their personal data. Ensures the business complies with the EU data protection law.

## Technologies Used
- This project uses HTML and CSS programming languages.
- <strong>Git hub</strong> for version control and host: https://github.com/omurilolima/the-wine-bar  
- <strong>Gitpod</strong> for coding: https://gitpod.io/ 
- <strong>W3C HTML</strong> valitadion service: https://validator.w3.org/  
- <strong>W3C CSS</strong> valitadion service: https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/  
- <strong>Lighthouse</strong> for test site performance on desktop and mobile devices.
- <strong>Balsamiq</strong> for create wireframes: https://balsamiq.com/ 
- <strong>Tinypng</strong> to image optimizing: https://tinypng.com/ 
- <strong>My Color</strong> for choosing a color pallete: https://mycolor.space/
- <strong>Google fonts</strong>: https://fonts.google.com/
- <strong>Google Drive</strong> and <strong>Notion</strong> for documenting.
- <strong>Favicon</strong> for create a favicon: https://favicon.io/
- <strong>Pomodoro Tracker</strong> for measure my effort: https://pomodoro-tracker.com/

## Testing

Testing information can be found in separate [TESTING.md file](/documentation/testing.md)

### Code Validator Testing
- HTML
    - No errors were returned when passing through the official [W3C validator](https://validator.w3.org/nu/?doc=https%3A%2F%2Fomurilolima.github.io%2Fthe-wine-bar%2Findex.html).
- CSS
    - No errors were found when passing through the official [(Jigsaw) validator](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/validator?uri=https%3A%2F%2Fomurilolima.github.io%2Fthe-wine-bar%2F&profile=css3svg&usermedium=all&warning=1&vextwarning=&lang=en).

### Performance, Responsiveness and Best Practices Testing

- According to [Google PageSpeed Insights](https://pagespeed.web.dev/report?url=https%3A%2F%2Fomurilolima.github.io%2Fthe-wine-bar%2F&form_factor=desktop).

![Google pagespeed results](/documentation/pagespeed-results.png)

- Responsiveness was also tested with [Am I responsive?](https://ui.dev/amiresponsive?url=https://omurilolima.github.io/the-wine-bar/)

## Deployment

This project was developed using the [Gitpod IDE](https://gitpod.io/), committed to git and pushed to [GitHub](https://github.com).

To <strong>deploy this page to GitHub Pages</strong> from its [GitHub repository](https://github.com/omurilolima/the-wine-bar), the following steps were taken:

1. Log into GitHub.
2. From the list of repositories on the screen, select AJGreaves/portrait-artist.
3. From the menu items near the top of the page, select Settings.
4. Scroll down to the GitHub Pages section.
5. Under Source click the drop-down menu labelled None and select Master Branch
6. On selecting Master Branch the page is automatically refreshed, the website is now deployed.
7. Scroll back down to the GitHub Pages section to retrieve the link to the deployed website.

The live link can be found here - https://omurilolima.github.io/the-wine-bar/index.html

### How to run this project locally
To clone this project into Gitpod you will need:

1. Create a Github account at https://github.com/
2. Use the Chrome browser

Then follow these steps:
1. Install the [Gitpod Browser Extentions for Chrome](https://www.gitpod.io/docs/browser-extension/)
2. After installation, restart the browser
3. Log into [Gitpod](https://gitpod.com/) with your gitpod account.
4. Navigate to the Project GitHub repository
5. Click the green "Gitpod" button in the top right corner of the respository
6. Threpositorygger a new gitpod workspace to be created from the code in github where you GitHubrk locally.

### How to commit and push changes

To commit and push changes you need to follow these steps:
1. Run the "git add ." command on the terminal to add a change in the working directory to the staging area.
2. Run the "git commit" command on the terminal and add a message to help indentifing what this commit is about.
3. Run the "git push" command on the terminal to upload local repository content to a remote repository. Note that any new commits to the main branch will automatically update the site.

## Credits

### Code

In addition to the knowledge acquired in the [Professional Academy Diploma in Full Stack Software Development](https://www.ucd.ie/professionalacademy/findyourcourse/professional_diploma_in_software_development/) by [University College Dublin](https://www.ucd.ie/) and [Code Institute](https://codeinstitute.net/ie/), I also used the following sources to deal with specific points of this project:

- Picking a colour scheme: [Tutorial by Kevin Powell](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mq8LYj6kRyE)
- CSS tutorials at [W3School](https://www.w3schools.com/howto/default.asp)
- Responsive Design: [Tutorial by Kevin Powell - 1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VQraviuwbzU) and [Tutorial by Kevin Powell - 2](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2KL-z9A56SQ)
- Markdown Guide: [Basic syntax](https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/) for create the README file.
- CSS Flexbox: [A Visual Reference](https://www.reddit.com/r/webdev/comments/usln38/a_visual_reference_of_css_flexbox/).

### Content

- The icons in the footer were taken from [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/icons).
- Images were taken from https://www.shutterstock.com/ and https://www.vivino.com/.

### Acknowledgments

- This project was inspired by my own experience of building digital products for tech companies as a Product Manager / Product Owner for the previous 10 years.

## Disclaimer

The content of this Website is for educational purposes only.

Commit message:

fix text about How to run this project locally

README.md, after:

# The Wine Bar

[View deployed site here](https://omurilolima.github.io/the-wine-bar/)

## Introduction

A comprehensive website for a wine specialized restaurant based in Dublin, Ireland. The website features an about section, time opening, location, a menu page (with dining, wines and desserts area), contact page with a form which allows the client to contact the restaurant for giving feedback, book a table and opt-in to receive news, information and special offers by e-mail. Social media icons are featured in the footer.

Every restaurant needs to present itself with high quality photos of its menu, besides its atmosphere and vibe. These are the main thing to catch the clients atetion and awake their desire to visit the place. This website eases the customer process to find all the info they need to decide on visiting the restaurant and having a great wine experience.

![website in different screen sizes](/documentation/website-in-different-screen-sizes.png)

### Business goals addressed with this site:

- Build brand awareness;
- Present the business value proposition with high-quality content about the menu and atmosphere;
- Catch customers' attention and awaken their desire to visit the place;

### Customer needs:

- Understand the proporse of The Wine Bar;
- View the exact location of the restaurant;
- View the oppening hours;
- View the menu and prices;
- Book a table;
- Intuitive contact process.

## UX

### Ideal client:

- English speaking;
- Has interest about wine culture;
- Enjoy cosy and fancy restaurants;

### Visitors to this website are searching for:

- A good restaurant in Dublin to have a great meal with good wines.

### This project is the best way to help them achieve these things because:

- Feature the place and menu with high-quality images to delight potential customers.
- Delivery of all the main info through a clear and easy-to-navigate experience.

### New Customer stories:
1. As a new visitor to the website, I want to view the main info about the restaurant.
2. As a new visitor to the website, I want to view the opening hours of the restaurant.
3. As a new visitor to the website, I want to view the location/address of the restaurant.
4. As a new visitor to the website, I want to view the menu of the restaurant.
5. As a new visitor to the website, I want to contact the restaurant.

### Returning Customer stories:

6. As a returning customer to the website, I want to give feedback to the restaurant.
7. As a returning customer to the website, I want to sign up for the mailing list and qualify for special offers.
8. As a returning customer to the website, I want to view the restaurant's social media.

### Wireframes
- <strong>Home</strong>

![Wireframe Home](/documentation/wireframe-home.png)

- <strong>Our menu</strong>

![Wireframe Our menu](/documentation/wireframe-menu.png)

- <strong>Contact</strong>

![Contact](/documentation/wireframe-contact.png)

### Colour Scheme
I used [mycolor.space](https://mycolor.space/) to choose a colour scheme that would be easily readable and visually appealing to users.

![Colour Scheme](/documentation/Colour%20Scheme.png)

### Typography
I used Google Fonts to select and import the fonts Roboto Black 900 for main headers and the logo and Roboto Regular 400 for body text.

![Roboto Google Fonts](/documentation/roboto-google-fonts.png)

## Features

Each page features a responsive navigation bar on top, with the conventional placing of <strong>logo</strong> and the links to other pages.

Each page has a <strong>footer</strong> with social media icons and the author section.

Every page - except the contact page - features its own <strong>hero image</strong> at the top. The home page hero image section has a <strong>call to action</strong> inviting the user to the menu page.


### F01 Navigation Bar

It includes a simple Logo, Home page, Menu and Contact links and is responsive on multiple screen sizes.

- <strong>Big screen</strong>

![Navigation bar on big screen](/documentation/navigation-bar-big-screen.png)

- <strong>Small screen</strong>

![Navigation bar on small screen](/documentation/navigation-bar-small-screen.png)

### F02 Hero image and call to action

The hero image features a photograph and a cover text that identify the business value proposition "Best wines for amazing moments". A highlighted button is placed as an eye-catching call to action inviting the user to view the menu page.

![Hero image and call to action](/documentation/hero-image-and-cta.png)

### F03 About

This section brings the story about the restaurant and its purpose. Above are the opening hours and address of the place.

![About section](/documentation/about-section.png)

### F04 Footer

This section aims to feature social media where the restaurant has profiles, and the user can click on the icon to visit each one.

![Footer](/documentation/footer.png)

### F05 Our menu

With high-quality images, this section features the menu (dining, wines and desserts) for the user views every item with its photo, name, description and price.

<strong>Wine menu large screen</strong>

![wine menu large screen](/documentation/wine-menu-large-screen.png)

<strong>Wine menu small screen</strong>

![Wine menu small screen](/documentation/wine-menu-small-screen.png)

<strong>Dining menu large screen</strong>

![Dining menu large screen](/documentation/dining-menu-large-screen.png)


### F06 Contact

In the "Contact us" area, the user find a contact form in which they can send a message to restauran, give a feedback and signup for mailing list and qualify for special offers.

The "How to find us" area features a <strong>Google Map</strong> embended to easy the process of view the exact location of the restaurant. Besides, there is a phone number and an e-mail.

![Contact and Map section](/documentation/contact-and-map.png)

## Features to Implement in future
- Add Google Analytics to measure the user's behaviour on the website.
- "Book a table" page to permit customer to book a table online.
- Add CAPTCHA to contact form - Allows business to protect the contact form from spam.
- GDPR compliant pop-up screen - Allows all new visitors to the website to approve or deny the processing of their personal data. Ensures the business complies with the EU data protection law.

## Technologies Used
- This project uses HTML and CSS programming languages.
- <strong>Git hub</strong> for version control and host: https://github.com/omurilolima/the-wine-bar  
- <strong>Gitpod</strong> for coding: https://gitpod.io/ 
- <strong>W3C HTML</strong> valitadion service: https://validator.w3.org/  
- <strong>W3C CSS</strong> valitadion service: https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/  
- <strong>Lighthouse</strong> for test site performance on desktop and mobile devices.
- <strong>Balsamiq</strong> for create wireframes: https://balsamiq.com/ 
- <strong>Tinypng</strong> to image optimizing: https://tinypng.com/ 
- <strong>My Color</strong> for choosing a color pallete: https://mycolor.space/
- <strong>Google fonts</strong>: https://fonts.google.com/
- <strong>Google Drive</strong> and <strong>Notion</strong> for documenting.
- <strong>Favicon</strong> for create a favicon: https://favicon.io/
- <strong>Pomodoro Tracker</strong> for measure my effort: https://pomodoro-tracker.com/

## Testing

Testing information can be found in separate [TESTING.md file](/documentation/testing.md)

### Code Validator Testing
- HTML
    - No errors were returned when passing through the official [W3C validator](https://validator.w3.org/nu/?doc=https%3A%2F%2Fomurilolima.github.io%2Fthe-wine-bar%2Findex.html).
- CSS
    - No errors were found when passing through the official [(Jigsaw) validator](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/validator?uri=https%3A%2F%2Fomurilolima.github.io%2Fthe-wine-bar%2F&profile=css3svg&usermedium=all&warning=1&vextwarning=&lang=en).

### Performance, Responsiveness and Best Practices Testing

- According to [Google PageSpeed Insights](https://pagespeed.web.dev/report?url=https%3A%2F%2Fomurilolima.github.io%2Fthe-wine-bar%2F&form_factor=desktop).

![Google pagespeed results](/documentation/pagespeed-results.png)

- Responsiveness was also tested with [Am I responsive?](https://ui.dev/amiresponsive?url=https://omurilolima.github.io/the-wine-bar/)

## Deployment

This project was developed using the [Gitpod IDE](https://gitpod.io/), committed to git and pushed to [GitHub](https://github.com).

To <strong>deploy this page to GitHub Pages</strong> from its [GitHub repository](https://github.com/omurilolima/the-wine-bar), the following steps were taken:

1. Log into GitHub.
2. From the list of repositories on the screen, select AJGreaves/portrait-artist.
3. From the menu items near the top of the page, select Settings.
4. Scroll down to the GitHub Pages section.
5. Under Source click the drop-down menu labelled None and select Master Branch
6. On selecting Master Branch the page is automatically refreshed, the website is now deployed.
7. Scroll back down to the GitHub Pages section to retrieve the link to the deployed website.

The live link can be found here - https://omurilolima.github.io/the-wine-bar/index.html

### How to run this project locally
To clone this project into Gitpod you will need:

1. Create a Github account at https://github.com/
2. Use the Chrome browser

Then follow these steps:
1. Install the [Gitpod Browser Extentions for Chrome](https://www.gitpod.io/docs/browser-extension/)
2. After installation, restart the browser
3. Log into [Gitpod](https://gitpod.com/) with your gitpod account.
4. Navigate to the Project GitHub repository
5. Click the green "Gitpod" button in the top right corner of the respository
6. This will trigger a new gitpod workspace to be created from the code in github where you can work locally.

### How to commit and push changes

To commit and push changes you need to follow these steps:
1. Run the "git add ." command on the terminal to add a change in the working directory to the staging area.
2. Run the "git commit" command on the terminal and add a message to help indentifing what this commit is about.
3. Run the "git push" command on the terminal to upload local repository content to a remote repository. Note that any new commits to the main branch will automatically update the site.

## Credits

### Code

In addition to the knowledge acquired in the [Professional Academy Diploma in Full Stack Software Development](https://www.ucd.ie/professionalacademy/findyourcourse/professional_diploma_in_software_development/) by [University College Dublin](https://www.ucd.ie/) and [Code Institute](https://codeinstitute.net/ie/), I also used the following sources to deal with specific points of this project:

- Picking a colour scheme: [Tutorial by Kevin Powell](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mq8LYj6kRyE)
- CSS tutorials at [W3School](https://www.w3schools.com/howto/default.asp)
- Responsive Design: [Tutorial by Kevin Powell - 1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VQraviuwbzU) and [Tutorial by Kevin Powell - 2](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2KL-z9A56SQ)
- Markdown Guide: [Basic syntax](https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/) for create the README file.
- CSS Flexbox: [A Visual Reference](https://www.reddit.com/r/webdev/comments/usln38/a_visual_reference_of_css_flexbox/).

### Content

- The icons in the footer were taken from [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/icons).
- Images were taken from https://www.shutterstock.com/ and https://www.vivino.com/.

### Acknowledgments

- This project was inspired by my own experience of building digital products for tech companies as a Product Manager / Product Owner for the previous 10 years.

## Disclaimer

The content of this Website is for educational purposes only.
